# Introduction #

This page introduces the use of the AWSEM simulation package, and the use of simulated annealing simulation for the purposes of predicting structure of monomer. The designed protein Top7 (PDB ID: 1QYS) was chosen to be the target for this example.

# EXAMPLE: PREDICTING STRUCTURE OF MONOMER #

## Files needed from Protein Data Bank ##
• Fasta sequence (ID.fasta.text from PDB), rename it to ID.fasta

• PDB ﬁle (ID.pdb)

**It is important to check and make necessary edits to the sequence in Fasta ﬁle so that it contain only the sequence that have coordinates in the PDB ﬁle.**

_For example: the ﬁrst 2 residues and the last 12 residues in the fasta ﬁle of Top7 (PDB ID: 1QYS) was cut off to match with the sequence in the PDB._


## Secondary bias - ssweight ﬁle ##

**Generate ssweight ﬁle using JPRED prediction tool**

1. Go to JPRED homepage:
http://www.compbio.dundee.ac.uk/www-jpred/

2. Feed the sequence from fasta ﬁle into JPRED. Choose to continue carrying out a Jpred prediction. When the prediction is complete, look at the prediction in “ViewSimple”

3. Copy the JPRED prediction into a new text ﬁle, called IDjpred

4. Call command to generate ssweight ﬁle
```
python /awsemmd/create_project_tools/GenSswight.py IDjpred ssweight
```
**Generate ssweight ﬁle using STRIDE server**

• Access the Stride Web interface:
http://webclu.bio.wzw.tum.de/stride/

• Output the result (in plain text format) and save as ssweight.stride

• Issue command to generate ssweight ﬁle from STRIDE assignment:
```
python /awsemmd/create_project_tools/stride2ssweight.py > ssweight
```

## Files needed for computing qw and qo ##

rnative.dat can be generated by the following command:
```
python /awsemmd/create_project_tools/GetCACADistancesFile.py ID native.dat
```

nativecoords.dat can be generated by the following command:
```
python /awsemmd/create_project_tools/GetCACoordinatesfromPDB.py ID nativecoords.dat
```

## Fragment memory library generation tool ##

**Obtaining and Preparing Protein Database**

• You can obtain your own database of structures with desirable resolution and maximum mutual sequence identity by using PISCES Protein Sequence Culling Server (http://dunbrack.fccc.edu/PISCES.php). The server will give you a FASTA ﬁle as output.

• To generate Fragment Library you need a database of well deﬁned structures in BLASTable format and a FASTA ﬁle which contains the sequences of those structures. The FASTA ﬁle should have the same preﬁx
as the database. If you already have a FASTA ﬁle you
can convert it to BLASTable format using makeblastdb
executable.
```
makeblastdb -in database-prefix.fasta -out database-prefix -dbtype prot
```
Output: database-preﬁx.phr; database-preﬁx.pin and database-preﬁx.psq

**Generatng Fragment Library**

You now can run the following script to generate fragment library for single-chain simulation.
```
python /awsemmd/frag_mem_tools/prepFragsLAMW_index.py database-prefix ID.fasta 20 1/0
```
Where 20 is typically the desirable number of memories per position. The last number represent the option of homolog excluded is 1, and homolog allowed is 0. Homolog excluded is used for structure prediction, in which all sequence homologs will be excluded from the search.

The above script will give you /frablib/ directory; fragsLAMW.mem as outputs. fragsLAMW.mem ﬁle contains {[Memories](Memories.md)} section with one line description of memories found. The coordinate ﬁles (with .gro extensions) are also generated by the scripts and can be found in ./fraglib/ directory.
```
[Memories]
./fraglib/2q3xa.gro 1 1462 6 1
./fraglib/3s3ea.gro 2 169 7 1
./fraglib/3l48a.gro 2 783 8 1
./fraglib/1q3oa.gro 1 646 9 1
```
When running homolog excluded simulation, turn on [Memory](Fragment.md) or [Memory Table](Fragment.md) in ﬁx backbone coeff.data; the later one uses precomputed tables for routine energy and force computations and is much
faster compared to [Memory](Fragment.md).

## Generating project ##

Run the following script to generate the data ﬁle, sequence ﬁle, and input ﬁle.
```
PdbCoords2Lammps.sh ID project_name
```
It will give you three ﬁles as outputs: data.project name; project name.seq; project name.in.

## Preparing template directory ##

Bellow are list of ﬁles that will be needed to run monomer
structure prediction:

• anti HB; anti NHB; anti one; para HB; para one;
gamma.dat; burial gamma.dat; uniform gamma;
ﬁx backbone coeff.data. These ﬁles can be obtained
from the /parameters/ directory of AWSEM source
code.

• ssweight

• rnative.dat, nativecoords.dat

• fragsLAMW.mem with correct paths link to gro ﬁle in
/fraglib/

• data.project name; project name.seq, project name.in

## Run simulated annealing simulation for monomer structure prediction ##

• Run a short equilibration at a constant temperature
above the folding temperature (Tf) to unfold the protein
into a long extended chain.

• Run a long simulation (typically 10 milions 2fs time steps)
while slowing bring the temperature from above Tf
to below Tf.